4.1 Introduction

	Middle Mandarin, as we observed previously, is not a faithful
reflection of the single phonological system but rather a reflection of
various systems, and does not represent a certain frozen synchronic state
but more or less a diachronic state. Depending on a point of view,
variations in Middle Mandarin may be viewed as internal development of the
same dialect, or as intermingling of various dialects or sub-dialects.
	The compilers of Middle Mandarin materials were not native speakers of
any single Chinese variety. As foreign phoneticians, all they were able to
do was to be as descriptive as possible about the Chinese varieties which
they were in contact with.  We may say that Middle Mandarin is a picture of
Mandarin variants spoken around Beijing during the mid-fifteenth and the
early sixteenth centuries. They started from a phoneticization of the
*Hongwu zhengyun* system using the Korean alphabet as phonetic symbols,
ending up with a more or less idealized system. However, they also provided
notes and variant readings in order to resolve discrepancies between
idealized standard and actual readings. Another element which we must bear
in mind is approximately the sixty-year time gap between Sin Sukchu
(1417-1475) and Ch`we Sejin (1478?-1543). Apparently, some phonological
changes had taken place during that period. This is, in my opinion, why
Middle Mandarin presents itself with a wide variety of variant readings as

====154

well as standard readings.
	In this chapter, I will provide the tables of Middle Mandarin
syllabary accomodating all the syllables in the standard readings and all
the variant readings. I have tried to accomodate as many words as possible
so that it can be used as a historical reference source. Since, except for
a small number of random variant readings, most of them show a systematic
phonological correlation with one another, phonemic representation is used
in order to make their phonological relationship clearer. *Rusheng* syllables
are not separated segmentally but are presented together with the
corresponding non-*rusheng* ones in the standard reading. As for the variant
readings of *ru* words, however, the segmental ending /-ʔ/ is provided or is
not provided according as whether the original transcription in question
has -*ʔ* or not.
